my girlfriend is cracking up in the
background maybe that's appropriate for
this video because this is video
responding to a political satire Ken
Saviour is a satirical vegan activist or
a satyr is a ssin of vegan activism and
I received a very open-ended request
than to make a video responding to or
perhaps criticizing this phenomenon and
I'd be interested to know the person who
sent me that message asking me to make
this view I wonder what their
expectation might be for many of you
this is the first you've heard of it or
seen it but apparently many many vegans
are responding to this satire with a
real sense of hostility and outrage and
if you've been watching my channel for a
long time you can probably imagine that
I actually have mixed sense of
admiration and appreciation for this
satire because it is addressing many of
the same issues I addressed on my
channel in a much more serious way so if
you just take some time to examine the
image that's on your screen right now I
know it looks like there's not a lot
there but really if you think about it
you've got the title of this video
permanent vacation to vegans drop out of
school for social media activism and the
word activism is in quotation marks then
you've got the text on the image itself
fame is fleeting the vegan movement is
not it might also jump out at you here
that this video I'm mentioning from over
a year ago on the channel it's 55
minutes long this is the better part of
an hour addressing this and I don't I
don't remember joking around a whole lot
in that video I don't remember it being
satirical in tone and then the fine
print the bottom left side of that that
image says don't drop out of school for
selfies so actually in this in this one
video or even just in the preview image
for this this video you can see I
actually have tried in my way to address
a lot of the same themes that can Savior
is here dealing with in a format that
takes much less than 55 minutes of your
time to consume so I'll just read this
one out for you
can hear Wow I can no longer hold in my
excitement I have a huge announcement to
make to all my adoring fans I am going
on a vegan Van prophecy tour around the
world I've been vegan for just over
three weeks and Cana calling for justice
can no longer wait I've decided to give
up my day job to peruse animal ah
Liberation's there's an intentional typo
I think I thought I thought that was an
intentional witticism but no to pursue
Animal Liberation and I will be
mentoring underprivileged African and
Asian kids I've set up a patreon account
and will be relying on single moms to
fund my journey to freedom I need to
speak on their behalf because they are
voiceless just like the animals if I can
do this anyone can just get a job
save up leave your kids behind
university debt your mortgage wives
husbands and elderly parents the most
oppressed minority needs you sacrifice
for the animals this is my crusade and
it comes at a price but I'm willing to
let you pay it and I hope you are too
i accept paypal and cheques so that's
that's ken saviors pitch now not only
Hawaii criticized this as I say I think
sometimes satirical I think sometimes
there have been elements of humor and
joking around but sometimes it's been
deadpan serious and I've known people
who did this
not just enemies and frenemies I think I
can say there were some people that were
my friends who really did this and there
were some people who urged me to do this
my girlfriend doesn't remember this time
of my life but before we got together
there were people who said to me look
why don't you just become a full-time
freakin activist why don't you just
start you know raising money this way
accepting donations listen donations
went so on and cinnamons there were
people who'd done it themselves to some
extent or what-have-you but it it pretty
much was this type of lifestyle activism
permanent vacation they were they were
talking about and no that's not what I'm
all about I just briefly searched my
channel I have over 900 videos on this
channel when I search for the word
permanent vacation
you can see again and again I have
actually been confronting and
criticizing other vegans about this kind
of you know I was gonna say hypocrisy
but really it's not hypocrisy it's not
hypocrisy it's just stupid
I mean it's stupidity is what it is that
we're we're trying to deal with here and
a lot of these same themes are coming up
in a satirical way that offends some
vegans with Kenan Saviour but let's keep
it a little real my videos also like you
just even that what I just had on screen
Thailand permanent vacation versus
political reality a lot of people were
really offended where I said hey look
guess what Thailand's a military
dictatorship when was the last time you
heard of there being elections in
Thailand what about the freedom of
speech and the right to protest now
let's really talk about the political
problems in Thailand that are being you
know kind of steamrolled by vegans on
this kind of self-indulgent political
vegan it was a political vision quest
but it came out political vegan quest
and we survey this kind of you know
Vision Quest permanent vacation
lifestyle activism and you know there
were people who were offended
flabbergasted to be raising these these
kinds of questions so it's not really a
shock to me that Ken Xavier is is
offending some people too and I don't
know the people who are behind the Ken
Saviour or SATs are I don't know if
they're Pro vegan or if they're you know
if there are actually meat-eaters who
just want to have a laugh at vegans I
really don't know
I would assume they're people who really
do support veganism just because the
level of knowledge of the vegans they're
making fun of is pretty high most meat
eaters if they engage in this kind of
satire they just wouldn't know enough
about what they're making fun of to
really skewer it this way so now I
here's here's Ken Savior arrives in in
Asia Ken here my exotic Asian and veg
sure continues as I infiltrate the local
bird markets where millions and millions
and millions of wild birds were enslaved
in cages and being sold into pet slavery
for just $5 this candid shot was taken
as I was liberating some of the birds in
their prisons I could see that this
young child was lost and in need of my
mentoring my words of love rained down
on her as I unlight 'end her with the
vegan prophecy of love and freedom for
all animals are not objects
even that kind of phrasing I think it
was a meat-eater writing this they
wouldn't know to use that that's
straight out of the you know the
abolitionist playbook animals are not
objects so most most non vegans wouldn't
even know to make fun of that that line
of reasoning all right they should not
be sold as slaves and for that reason I
could not pay her as I walked away I
could hear her sobbing as the darkness
of reality lay upon her and at that
moment I knew I had liberated another
mind from the chains of speciesism
she will never sell birds again stay
woke Asia next stop Africa you know
durianrider back when he was defending
his reputation the reputation he
destroyed himself I remember he told the
story which of course may not be true of
him going and liberating a bird in that
sense basically stealing a bird from a
market a live bird what was being being
sold
I never he claimed he you know he never
met he's lived in Thailand for years but
he never made the language but he
claimed that just communicating through
the eyes that Thai man whose bird was
being stolen he got it he understood the
moral purpose of his bird big stolid
like you know you're just looking into
his eyes I could feel that he felt me
like it was it was pretty self-serving
and delusory all right can savior
arrives in africa hey Ken here touchdown
in travel Africa today and I feel
overwhelmed with emotion as I look upon
the land of our ancestors but as usual
there was no time wasted straight into
activism the animals can't wait this
picture was taken as I was spreading my
seeds of vegan knowledge to the poor
underprivileged children at the local
markets lucky for them I brought foreign
vegan aid Oreos and the impossible
burger my mentoring skill my girls
really crack yeah but now that Mike
picks it up anyway my mentoring skills
came in handy as I explained that
cruelty free food will save the world
from poverty and starvation
especially vegan chocolates because they
support the local cacao is Right Wow my
blazing heart has no limits and sees no
color I just see Earthlings in need we
are all animals and my vegan prophecy
will liberate us with your ongoing
donations we will rise together stay
tuned for more
some tips the saga continues so look I
looked I went to the Facebook page that
all these images come from and you know
it actually has a review section like as
if it were a restaurant people can leave
reviews I think every single review was
either five stars or one star it was the
highest possible said it were the lowest
and the people leaving one-star reviews
were vegans and it was very interesting
people claimed this is divisive this is
going to divide the vegan community you
know and I think that is profoundly
misguided I mean you know satire is not
a sign of weakness it's a sign of
strength if your movement is worth
satirizing it means you're doing a lot
of things right not that you're doing a
lot of things wrong and I hope the
movement is strong enough that there are
a lot of people who feel confident in
their own activism and confident in
their own knowledge of economics and
politics and foreign policy in Africa
and Asia and everything else that they
can look at this and laugh and if you've
been involved with veganize activism you
probably do know a few people out there
like Ken safer you you probably do know
a few people where you know hey if the
shoe fits wear it
if this criticism comes it's a little
bit too close to home maybe you should
feel criticized and you should examine
what you're doing but um you know
satirizing the worst of the most
buffoonish elements of what's going on
in vegan activism obviously i regard
this you know positively there's there's
a lot here that's worth laughing about
and there's a lot here that's worth
laughing at and i don't know when when
you imagine the present and future of
the vegan movement if you imagine
something so feeble that it can be
divided and destroyed by me and my
videos you know like pointing out for
example that hey test bag dropped out of
high school to do this you know why why
do we have people on YouTube encouraging
more high school students to drop out of
high school and just start living on the
Internet dole internet handouts from you
know and I mean there are a lot of other
elements to that too there's the bikini
based activism element there's you know
in some ways it's it's pretty pretty
sure to say drop out of high school and
start posting half-naked pictures of
yourself in the Internet as activism
starts soliciting donations and then
start traveling around it normally is
Asia not Africa you know there probably
are some examples in Africa too I
noticed for some reason it's not Syria
for some reason nobody wants to ship out
to a war zone and breach veganism there
for some reason it's not it's not Iraq
what the Americans want in Iraq the
war's over why don't we have more ken
savior's what I was going to Iraq what's
up what's up Ken come on take your Oreos
to Iraq start explaining the Iraqis
could use some some vegan activists
but anyway you know still it was
interesting for me and it really brought
me back to the situation that Channel
two years ago or more seeing the harsh
shrill thin-skinned reaction of some
vegans to this giving it one star and
saying no this is terrible
you're gonna divide the movement you're
gonna let the animals down you're
sabotaging what we're doing guys satire
is not sabotage
evolution